We're now ready to start talking
about more advanced completion
stage methods.
These are the
completion stage methods
that can be triggered when both
or either of previous stages
complete.
We're going to start
by talking about the
And variant of the two-stage
completion stage methods.
So as we talked
about before, there
are different types of methods.
The methods we're
about to talk about
are ones that are triggered
when both of two previous stages
complete.
And the method we're going to
focus on for our discussion
is thenCombine.
And you can basically
think about thenCombine
as a simple form of reduction.
It takes two tasks, or two
asynchronous flows, and then
it combines them together
to a single flow.
So it's basically a
Join, if you will.
This applies its
BiFunction action
to the results of
both previous stages.
So it's basically this
concept of a conjunction.
It's when both things
occur, this gets done.
And as you can see here,
it takes a BiFunction,
and that's exactly what
it needs in order to run.
It's going to take two inputs
and produce one output.
There's a pair of
futures used here.
The future that's used
to invoke thenCombine,
which you don't see here,
but of course, since it's not
a static method, we need an
object, a CompletableFuture
to call it, and
the other future,
which is passed as the first
parameter to thenCombine.
As you can see, other
is the first parameter.
It returns a future
that contains
the result of the action.
So you can basically think
of it as performing a Join
or performing a reduction.
It's reducing something from
two flows into a single flow.
We can use thenCombine to
join two paths of asynchronous
execution to produce
a single result.
So let's take a look
at an example, which
also comes out of
my ex 8 folder,
to illustrate how this works.
What we're going
to do here is we're
going to asynchronously multiply
and asynchronously divide
big fractions.
So the first
computation, the compF1
is going to asynchronously
multiply two big fractions.
The second computation
compF2 will asynchronously
divide two big fractions.
And we will then
call thenCombine.
And thenCombine is designed
so that when compF1 completes
and compF2 completes,
then the big fraction
add action will be performed.
So a big fraction
add is an action that
will be registered
and called back when
both previous stages complete.
So it won't be called until
everything else is done.
And then, of course, we're
going to go ahead and print
the results out.